Homework 03

Exercises

Process Models and Activities

1. Provide an example (other than one described in class) of a type of software that would benefit from a prescriptive process model and one that would benefit from an agile process model. Be specific as to the types of models you use.

2. A traditional software development company is “changing with the times”, and has hired you to migrate from a prescriptive to an agile process model. Is this possible? What are the tradeoffs? What are the challenges?

  Use the prescriptive example you gave in question 1 and provide the high level tasks you would implement to achieve the migration.

3. Perform some more in-depth research into Kanban approach for Lean Software Development and into Scrumban. From this research consider how we might essentialize the notions of Kanban such that we can apply the techniques from Essence in combining practices to form new Methods. That is, how can we combine the essentialized ideas of Kanban with the Scrum Lite to form ScrumBan Lite.

4. After visiting with data center engineers at the Central Train Station, the young software engineer wrote down an English description of the software needed by the Company. Read the description below and see if you can identify original requirements. Try to classify the requirements you find into functional and non-functional types.

Train Ticket Dispensing System

You are required to build a software system to handle the dispensing of tickets at a train station. In this case the ticket dispensing machine can hold only a finite number of coins and bills. The machine stores only information about trains that leave the station in which the machine is located. Each train makes a finite number of stops after leaving the station. These stops are called destinations. Each train has two types of cabins: first class and regular class. The maximum number of seats in each cabin varies across trains. A user of the ticket machine must enter a destination (as a selection), number of tickets required, and the type of cabin requested (only one type of cabin can be selected for the number of tickets ordered). The machine then checks whether a train that stops at the destination has available space in the type of cabin requested. If there is an available train, the system then reserves the required number of seats and displays the price to the user. The user must then enter payment (restrictions on type of payment are given below). After sufficient payment is entered the system dispenses the tickets. Each ticket contains the train identifier, the cabin type, and a seat number. If insufficient payment is entered the reservation is cancelled.

The machine operates under the following conditions:
• This machine accepts only cash. Only nickels, dimes, quarters, dollar bills and five dollar bills are to be accepted as
valid contributions to a payment.
• All other objects are rejected (rejected objects are called slugs).
• The number of coins and bills that the machine can store is limited. Below are the limits:
– Nickels: maxN
1
– Dimes: maxD
– Quarters: maxQ
– Dollar bills (1 and 5 dollar bills combined): maxB
• A ticket can only be dispensed if it is available and the payment is sufficient.
• Payment can only be made after a reservation is made on an available train



User Stories and Use Cases

5. Construct a set of user stories for the MVP of a game of blackjack for a virtual casino. Assume there is a dealer, a single player, and the ability to make bets. As part of your user stories, include the associated acceptance tests. For each story created, the expected level of detail is: Acceptance Criteria Listed. Once you have the initial user stories defined, refine them into what would be able to be completed in a two week sprint. Through your refinement, identify any epics that may exist.

6. Using the user stories created in #3 above, construct a set of Use Cases capturing the details of each user story. The expected level of detail for any Use-Case narrative you define is "Bulleted Outline". Once you have completed the initial use cases, estimate the time required to implement these use cases. For any use case that would take longer than a two-week sprint to complete, extract use case slices for that use case. Finally, once you have complete this work, construct a Use Case model using Lucid Charts or another UML modeling tool, to show how your use-cases and actors relate.

Submission
