---
course: "CSCI 4458 | CSCI 5558"
title: HW 05 - Curves Assignment
assigned: "October 21, 2019"
due: "November 04, 2019 @ 23:00h"
fontsize: 12pt
...

# Purpose {-}

# Assignment {-}

## Part 1 (2 Points Each) {-}

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{\arabic*}]
\item Use Sutherland-Hodgman to clip the polygon $ABCDEFGHI$ below. clip in the order left edge, right edge, bottom edge, top edge. Show all four generated polygon vertex lists. Whenever you need a new vertex name use the next available letter of the alpha bet, starting with $J$.

\item Use Bresenham's Algorithm to compute the points on the line from (-1, -2) to (-4, 5). Show all $d$ values and sketch the intermediate lines that you use. Use DDA to confirm that your line is correct.

\item Use Bresenham's algorithm to compute the points on the primary quadrant (from North to East) of the circle $(x + 2)^2 + (y - 3)^2 = 121$. Show all $d$ values. Use DDA to confirm that your generated points are correct.

\item A B-spline curve has 11 control points, $P_0 = (12, 3)$, $P_1 = (12, 6)$, $P_2 = (12, 9)$, $P_3 = (6, 12)$, $P_4 = (9, 9)$, $P_5 = (9, 6)$, $P_6 = (3, 3)$, $P_7 = (0, 0)$, $P_8 = (0, 6)$, $P_9 = (0, 9)$, $P_{10} = (3, 12)$. Sketch the curve and show each $Q_i$ that approximates each $P_i$.

\item For the curve, above, use the B-spline matrix to compute the curve segment that approximates $P_7$ to $P_8$. Do the endpoints of this curve match the $Q$ points shown on your sketch?

\item If we had wanted to interpolate the end points for the curve described in 4, and wanted a cubic B-spline, what is the open unform knot vector that should be used?

\item A 2D Hermitian system is defined with $P_0 = (2, 0)$, $DP_0 = (3, 0)$, $P_3 = (0, 1)$, $DP_3 = (6, 3)$. Compute the parametric curve equations and sketch the curve. Are the beginning and ending points and slopes on your curve correct?

\item Generate the Bezier system that is equivalent ot hte Hermitian system in question 7. Use the Bezier matrix to computer the curve equations, which should be the same as those generated for Hermite. Sketch the curve and include the convex hull.

\end{enumerate}

## Part 2 (30 Points) {-}

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{\arabic*}]
\item (50\% Level) Draw a closed NURBS Curve.
\item (70\% Level) Using your own grid of 3D data, draw a lit NURBS surface.
\item (85\% Level) Include either a Pwl or a NURBS trimming curve in your surface.
\item (100\% Level) Include both NURBS curve and a Pwl trimming curves in your surface.

# Submission {-}

Submit your written assignment as a Single PDF compiled using LaTeX to Moodle. The programming assignment must be demoed no later than 5pm on the due date.
