---
author:
- Dr. Isaac Griffith
title: Java Review I
institute: |
  CS 2263

  Department of Computer Science

  Idaho State University
fontsize: 11pt
cornerLogo: "images/spirit.png"
wideLogo: "images/wide.png"
lowerCornerLogo: "images/roar.eps"
...

# Daily Quiz

* Starting at 14:02
  - You will have 5 minutes
  - You may not use your notes, books, lectures, or the internet
  - You may not help each other

\vfill
\centering

\LARGE \underline{Passcode}

\Huge \textbf{1671}

# Individual Practicum

::: columns
:::: column

\tiny

**Part 1**

Write a Java class called `LongInteger` as per the following specifications

* Objects of the class store integers that can be as long as 50 digits.
* The class must have the following constructors and methods
  - \tiny `public LongInteger()` - Sets the integer to 0
  - \tiny `public LongInteger(int[] otherDigits)` - Sets the integer to the given integer represented by the parameter. A copy of otherDigits must be made to prevent accidental changes.
  - \tiny `public LongInteger(int number)` - Sets the integer to the value given in the parameter
  - \tiny `public void readIn()` - reads in the integer from the keyboard. You can assume that only digits will be entered
  - \tiny `public LongInteger add(int number)` - Adds number to the integer represented by this object and returns the result
  - \tiny `public LongInteger add(LongInteger number)` - Adds number to the integer represented by this object and returns the result
  - \tiny `public String toString()` - returns a String representation of the integer.
* Use an array of 50 ints to store the digits of the number

::::
:::: column

\tiny

**Part 2**

* Study the interface `Extendable` given below:

  \tiny
  ```java
  public interface Extendable {
      boolean append(char c);
      boolean append(char[] sequence);
  }
  ```

\tiny

* `append(char c)` - appends a character to the object (or, more precisely the object's class) that implements this interface.
* `append(char[] sequence)` - appends all characters in the array to this object.
  - \tiny If there is no space in the object to append, the method returns `false`; otherwise they return true.

* Write code for the class `SimpleBuffer` that implements the above interface
  - \tiny Has a constructor with the following signature.

    `public SimpleBuffer(int size)`

  - \tiny The class has two fields
    * \tiny one which stores the char array
    * \tiny the other stores the number of elements actually filled in the array

  - \tiny Must also implement the `toString` method which returns the correct String representation of the char array.
  - \tiny It should also implement the `equals` method such that two buffers are equal if and only if they contain the same set of characters

::::
:::
