# Homework 1

From Ammann & Offutt 2nd Edition complete the following:

Chapter 1 Exercise 1 (Page 12)
Chapter 1 Exercise 4 (a) - (d) (Page 12 and 13)
Chapter 1 Exercise 5 (a) - (f) for lastZero() only (Page 13 and 14)
Chapter 1 Exercise 6 (Page 14)
Chapter 1 Exercise 7 (a) - (f) for BigDecimalTest class only (Page 14-17)

## Part 2 (10 pts)

Download the accompanying project which includes the small command-line Java program Calendar.java. Calendar reads two integer inputs representing a month and a year, and prints the calendar for that month. The project uses gradle to build and run it. You can easily import this project into IntelliJ, Eclipse or Netbeans.

A test for Calendar is two integer inputs and the expected output.


1. Design at least five tests. One should be a “happy path” test, that is, a test for normal behavior. The others should use exceptional inputs. Implement your tests using JUnit. (For a review of JUnit read K Ch 1-2). Document your inputs and expected results.
2. Run your tests. Capture and submit the results of running your tests.
3. Modify Calendar.java to include input validation. When finished, your tests related to input validation should run correctly.
4. As you make the changes, keep a simple documentation log of what you do. Note which components and methods you change and which ones you no longer use. Summarize the changes in a few words. You do not need to go to the level of which variables you create or delete or how you change the control flow. I just want the highlights. This should be no more than one page.
5. Write a short assessment of the maintainability of the software. What did the original programmers do that made it hard to change the software? What did the original programmers do that made it easy to change the software? What would you do differently if you did the assignment again? One or two paragraphs should be enough.

## Part 3 (10 pts)

Ammann/Offutt, 2nd edition, Exercises Chapter 3 (page 50-52). Do Exercise 9 (equals()/hashCode()).

Make it easy to evaluate your work. Specifically, since you are evaluating different versions of same code, provide evidence of execution (screen shots) at each phase, and briefly describe all of your work.

The deliverable is a report, as opposed to executable code and tests.
