# Evolutionary Design and Change

## Part 1

Download the accompanying project which includes the small command-line Java program Calendar.java. Calendar reads two integer inputs representing a month and a year, and prints the calendar for that month. The project uses gradle to build and run it. You can easily import this project into IntelliJ, Eclipse or Netbeans.

A test for Calendar is two integer inputs and the expected output.

1. Design at least five tests. One should be a “happy path” test, that is, a test for normal behavior. The others should use exceptional inputs. Implement your tests using JUnit. (For a review of JUnit read K Ch 1-2). Document your inputs and expected results.
2. Run your tests. Capture and submit the results of running your tests.
3. Modify Calendar.java to include input validation. When finished, your tests related to input validation should run correctly.
4. As you make the changes, keep a simple documentation log of what you do. Note which components and methods you change and which ones you no longer use. Summarize the changes in a few words. You do not need to go to the level of which variables you create or delete or how you change the control flow. I just want the highlights. This should be no more than one page.
5. Write a short assessment of the maintainability of the software. What did the original programmers do that made it hard to change the software? What did the original programmers do that made it easy to change the software? What would you do differently if you did the assignment again? One or two paragraphs should be enough.

## Part 2

Complete the following questions from Ammann & Offutt 2nd Edition:

Chapter 2 Exercise 2 (Page 32)
Chapter 3 Exercise 1 (Page 50)
Chapter 3 Exercise 2 (Page 50)
Chapter 3 Exercise 5 (Page 50 and 51)
Chapter 3 Exercise 6 (Page 51 and 52)
Chapter 3 Exercise 8 (Page 52)

## Part 1 (10 pts)
If you have never done this before, set up a continuous integration service such as Jenkins or Travis CI. and use it to build and update a small example system. You should intentionally break and restore builds as part of your exercise.

turn in a concise report. The report must reflect a reasonable level of investigation/analysis. Simply making it through the download and running a canned tutorial isn't satisfactory.

## Part 2 (10 pts)
This is a "Test Double" exercise. We'll do the exercise one step at a time, with discussion between steps.

Consider testing a class that implements a service for making reservations. We don't really care what the reservations are for: dinner, lodging, transport, whatever. Let's call this class ReservationService and suppose it has a dependency component, namely a ranking service that scores customers, with the idea that higher ranking customers get better arrangements. Note that we are not testing the ranking service. Indeed, the ranking service might be from a third party, it might be expensive (in time or money), or it might be stochastic, with rankings varying over time. Since these are all awkward for testing, we'd like to replace the ranking service with a fake for the duration of our tests. One standard implementation (with unfortunate consequences for testing) uses a static factory to set the ranking service inside the reserve() method.

```java
public class ReservationService {
    // instance variables, constructors, other methods omitted for now
    public void reserve( Customer customer) {
       RankingService rankingService = RankingServices.getRankingService();
       // more code that uses the ranking service by calling
       //   public Rank getRank(Customer customer)
       // on the rankingService object.
    }
}
```

Great. Let's see what a test case looks like:

```java
@Test public void testReservationService() {
   ReservationService reservationService = new ReservationService();
   Customer customer = ...
   // do I really want to call reservationService.reserve(customer) ???
   RankingService fakeRankingService = new FakeRankingService();
   // are there other ways to create a fake ranking service?
   // can I make the reservation service use my fake ranking service?
}
```

Suppose we pull the rankingService variable out as an instance variable in the ReservationService class. This a step in the right direction. Why? (Your answer should say something about "seams"). What does the reservation service code look like now? What does the test code look like now?

What else do we need to do in the ReservationService class? Hint: think about "enabling points".

How does this help in the test code? Hint: think about "exploiting enabling points".

Finally, I need some assertions. What can I say about the fake ranking service that I can't say about the real ranking service? Vice versa? Hint: think about "state testing" vs. "interaction testing". Hint: Recall that you have total control over the fake ranking service.

How does this exercise square with standard development advice?

This week's assignment is to take in-class exercise #9 and fill in the details. At the end of the exercise, you should have compilable, running Java for all the parts discussed: the reservation service, the ranking service (both real and fake), and JUnit tests.

An option for those of you looking to learn a bit more is to use a mocking tool to implement the test doubles and the assertions in your tests.

Deliverable: Write a story explaining what you did in a way that is accessible to a typical software developer. In other words, someone who has only a very vague idea of what test doubles are should be able to read your story and understand test doubles better. Part of the grading will be an assessment of how clear your story is.
