# There are 3 parts choose 2.

## Part 1 - Continuous Integration

Select an Open Source Java project from GitHub that uses either Maven or Gradle for build and dependency management. Note, you can also use one of your own projects as well.

1. Set up a continuous integration service such as Jenkins or Travis CI. and use it to build and update a small example system. Your experimental system should include version control for both the source and test code. Experiment with breaking the build by either introducing a fault into the source code or adding a failing test case. Restore the build.
2. After completing #1 add to the gradle/maven build the ability to use code coverage (such as with JaCoCo) and static analysis (such as with SpotBugs or PMD). Execute the build to evaluate the code coverage of tests and any issues that might violate the static analysis rules.

Turn in a concise report. The report must reflect a reasonable level of investigation/analysis. Simply making it through the download and running a canned tutorial isn't satisfactory.

## Part 2 - Refactoring

Using the system from Part 1 above, complete the following:

1. Identify an area of the system that is in need of refactoring. Identify what refactoring is needed and why it is needed.
2. Develop a serious of tests for the methods/classes that are to be refactored, if they do not already exist.
3. Execute the tests to verify that they pass, if they do not, fix the code/tests to ensure they pass.
4. Conduct the refactoring
5. Execute the tests to verify that they still pass.

Writeup the progress made into a report detailing exactly what you did and the results that were found.

## Part 3 - Criteria-Based Test Design

From Ammann & Offutt 2nd Edition complete the following:

Chapter 5 Exercise 1 (Page 70)
