## Part 1 - Input Space Paritioning

From Ammann & Offutt 2nd Edition:

* Section 6.1 Exercise 2 (page 84-85)
* Section 6.1 Exercise 4 (page 85-86)

## Part 2 - Combination Strategies Criteria

From Ammann & Offutt 2nd Edition:

* Section 6.2 Exercise 3 (page 90)
* Section 6.2 Exercise 5 (page 91)

## Part 3 - Graph Coverage

From Ammann & Offutt 2nd Edition:

* Section 7.1 Exercise 2 (page 111)
* Section 7.1 Exercise 3 (page 111)
* Section 7.2.2 Exercise 5 (page 122)
* Section 7.2.2 Exercise 7 (page 123)
* Section 7.2.3 Exercise 1 (a) - (f) for Graph II only (Page 129 and 130)
* Section 7.3 Exercise 7 (Page 145)

## Part 4 - Using Tools

Use a Java code coverage tool to build and analyze a test set for some class in java.util. (You can find the source code with Google.) You should strive to get the coverage as high as possible. To execute the code in isolation, you may have to change the code in some minor ways (eg by renaming). You may also remove some code if it proves especially problematic for you. You should document any changes you made for test purposes. Notice that the classes vary quite a bit in size.

You should turn in a report that

* Demonstrates clearly that you, in fact, completed the assignment.
* Reports on any technical twists and turns you encountered along the way.
* Gives the actual tests.
* You should format your tests as JUnit tests.

**Notes:**

* As for which tools to use, you may wish to start by googling "java test coverage". In the past, many students have used the JaCoCo tool.
* If you can find them, you are also welcome to analyze the existing tests (presumably JUnit) that go with any of the existing Java code. If you opt for this route, instead of analyzing coverage on a single class, you should analyze something larger. Your deliverable is still a report, but you should only provide a link (in the report) to the actual tests.

## Part 1

1. Download and use a combinatorial testing tool to generate combinatorial tests for some artifact of your choosing. You can start looking at the Pairwise Testing site, or you can go directly to a specific tool such as the NIST ACTS.
2. Turn in a brief report that convinces me that you had the tool running and also reflects on the attributes of the resulting tests (e.g. how many, what happened with constraints, etc.)
   * Consider the patternIndex() function (in PatternIndex.java attached).
   * Build a set of JUnit tests that satisfies either PWC or BCC (your choice). I suggest you choose a fairly simple input domain model so that the deliverable, described below, is not of undue complexity.

Your deliverable is a story that convinces the me that you actually derived your tests from your input domain model. That is, you will be graded solely on whether you demonstrate an understanding of how input domain models lead to tests in the context of this example. If you simply turn in an IDM or JUnit tests without explanation, your score will be zero.

An important part of the story is explaining what happens to infeasible test frames. Depending on whether you are using PWC or BCC, you need to do the right thing with them.
