# Logic and Syntax Testing

## Part 1 - Logic Testing

From Ammann & Offutt 2nd Edition complete the following:

* Section 8.3 Exercise 5 (Page 221)
* Section 8.3 Exercise 9 (Page 222)
* Section 8.3 Exercise 12 (Page 223)

## Part 2 - Syntax Testing

From Ammann & Offutt 2nd Edition complete the following:

* Section 9.1.1 Exercise 2 (Page 237)
* Section 9.1.2 Exercise 3 (Page 241)
* Section 9.1.2 Exercise 5 (Page 241)
* Section 9.2 Exercise 2 (Page 255)
* Section 9.2 Exercise 4 (Page 256). Use the provide PatternIndex.java
* Section 9.5 Exercise 6 (Page 279 - 280)
* Section 9.5 Exercise 8 (Page 280)

## Part 3 - Tools

1. Consider the PIT mutation tool. Apply PIT to a program of your choosing and generate tests to kill the PIT mutants. Your tests should be as close to mutation-adequate as you can make them. That means you should be able to justify unkilled mutants in your report. Note: This tool is aimed at practicing developers, so it is relatively easy to deal with.
2. From Ammann & Offutt 2nd Edition Section 9.2 complete exercise 11 (Page 258)
3. Download and install the PIT mutation tool, the Jester mutation-testing tool, and the muJava mutation testing tool, and based on your reading evaluate and compare the tools.

## Part 4

Use Evosuite to generate tests on a small Java project selected from GitHub. You should analyze the tests to see what Evosuite comes up with and what it misses. Writeup a short report on the use of EvoSuite, its quirks, and usefulness. Be sure to note the project analyzed, tests it generated, and tests it missed.
