---
course: CSCI 2263
title: "PI 03 - First Implement / Test"
assigned: "February 21, 2020"
due: "March 06, 2020 @ 17:00h"
...

# Project Iteration 3: First Implement / Test {-}

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{$\cdot$}]
\item The goal for this iteration is to have your dev stack stood up, with a few core features working and passing unit tests.
\item You must have a fully automated build of your project with your top-level README.md describing how to build it, and all files needed for the build must be in your repository. For Java you simply need a Gradle build file.
\item By iteration 4 You must use TravisCI or other continuous integration tool/service to automatically run all of your tests at each push to your repository; iteration 3 is a good time to start working on that goal. See the tools page for details on Travis.
\item For this and subsequent iterations you are required to use the GitHub issue tracker to manage bugs, features, etc. See the OOSE Git Page for more concrete suggestions on how to use the issue tracker.
\item For this and subsequent iterations you are required to use GitHub's project boards (or similar tool with explicit advisor approval) to keep track of your progress.
  \begin{itemize}
  \item See The GitHub project boards help pages for documentation.
  \item We suggest you make a TODO and a DONE column for each iteration, and perhaps a column for all features so you can later drag them to assign to iterations.
  \item Make sure to integrate your project boards with your GitHub issues - the project board lets you directly post issues there as cards.
  \item You can easily move features/issues between iteration columns as things evolve -- use that ability to let your plan evolve
  \end{itemize}
\item For this and subsequent iterations we require that a changelog to be kept in a top-level file CHANGELOG.md in your repo. See keep a changelog for information on how to do it; here is a good example
\item You need to have a codebase pushed to master on your team's GitHub repository for our inspection.
\end{enumerate}

# Submission {-}

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{$\cdot$}]
\item By the due date your team needs to produce a release which is merged into master and tagged as "Iteration 03"
\item This tagged version of your code is what will be evaluated.
\end{enumerate}
