---
course: CSCI 2263
title: "PI 04 - Core Working"
assigned: "March 06, 2020"
due: "March 20, 2020 @ 23:00h"
...

# Project Iteration 4: Core Working {-}

For this iteration you should have some sort of skeleton app fully standing up. Most of the features may be missing, but the project should be fully integrated and running.

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{$\cdot$}]
\item Getting good tests is a major focus of this iteration.
  \begin{itemize}
  \item We are going to explicitly look for good coverage with tests in this iteration and going forward. You are strongly encouraged to use a code coverage tool.
    \begin{itemize}
    \item IntelliJ comes packaged with one
    \item Eclipse can use the EclEmma plugin    
    \end{itemize}
  \item Back-end tests are required; front-end tests are optional unless your front-end has serious domain logic in it.
  \item We also will be looking for TravisCI integration testing in this iteration, you will lose points if you don't have it.
  \end{itemize}
\item Testing will be at least 25% of your iteration grade as added encouragement to put some time on that aspect now.
\item Build and deploy is also an important focus.
  \begin{itemize}
  \item You are required to have a clean build and deploy process - work with your instructor to make sure they can easily build and test your project
  \item Make sure to give instructions in the README whereby your instructor can clone, build and locally run your app without turning their brain on, in other words they should just be able to copy/paste command lines from your top-level README. Also include similar instructions for running your test suite.
  \item We will assign around 10% of the iteration grade to this, in particular whether we can get your app running and to run your tests.
  \end{itemize}
\item Lastly, we are giving you a heads-up that we will be looking in detail at how Git is being used by your team (hopefully you are already doing all of this):
  \begin{itemize}
  \item You need to do your own development on a branch, and you need to integrate that into master on a regular basis - we don't want to see your project without an integrated master branch at the iteration submission point.
  \item Don't make personal branches for each group member, that is an abuse of git branches -- they are for feature additions or other tasks, which should not be perfectly tied to people.
  \item You need to get a clear workflow going for how code is integrated on to your master branch. We recommend you experiment with using git pull requests when you are proposing to integrate some code from your branch into master. This topic was covered toward the end of the lecture git tutorial, please look there for more details of why and how.
  \end{itemize}
\item The format for Iteration 4 submission otherwise follows Iteration 3; make sure to keep using GitHub issues, update your project boards to reflect your revised plan for future iterations, update your README.md, and update CHANGELOG.md to reflect what you accomplished in this iteration.
\end{enumerate}

# Evaluation of Your Group Members {-}

Each project group member is also required to confidentially evaluate the performance of other members of his or her group. The Markdown form to use is here, there are multiple copies of the form, fill out one for each team member. All peer evaluations will be held in 100% confidence.

# Submission {-}

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{$\cdot$}]
\item By the due date your team needs to produce a release which is merged into master and tagged as "Iteration 04"
\item This tagged version of your code is what will be evaluated.
\end{enumerate}

\noindent The peer evaluation should be submitted to the "Peer Review 02 - Iterations 03 & 04" dropbox on moodle.
