---
course: CSCI 2263
title: "PI 06 - Final Demo"
assigned: "April 10, 2020"
due: "April 24, 2020 @ 23:00h"
...

# Project Iteration 6: Final Demo {-}

You need to do two things:

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{$\cdot$}]
\item Demonstrate your working project to the Professor and TA's on demo day
\item Make your final git pushes to your gitlab repository
\end{enumerate}

## Demo Presentations {-}

All groups will schedule to demonstrate their projects to the prof.

Additionally, each team will need to present their work to the class on the last day of the class. See the course Project presentations pdf for information on presentation details.

## Demo Evaluation Criteria {-}

Evaluation criteria from the demo include:

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{$\cdot$}]
\item Was the demo well-structured?
\item Was a working project produced?
\item How advanced is the project?
\item Did errors or glitches arise? Were exceptional cases handled gracefully?
\item GUI quality: ease of use (fits into standard look and feel conventions), lack of glitches.
\end{enumerate}

## Final Submission Requirements {-}

This is the same as the previous several iterations, and additionally includes a peer evaluation. Along with your code, make sure to update your GitHub Project boards, README, and Changelog to reflect the final status of your project. Include any features you didn't get to in a hypothetical iteration 7 on your project boards.

# Evaluation of Your Group Members {-}

Each project group member is also required to confidentially evaluate the performance of other members of his or her group. The Markdown form to use is here, there are multiple copies of the form, fill out one for each team member. All peer evaluations will be held in 100% confidence.

# Submission {-}

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{$\cdot$}]
\item By the due date your team needs to produce a release which is merged into master and tagged as "Iteration 06"
\item This tagged version of your code is what will be evaluated.
\end{enumerate}

\noindent The peer evaluation should be submitted to the "Peer Review 02 - Iterations 05 & 06" dropbox on moodle.
