---
author:
- Dr. Isaac Griffith
title: Agile Planning and Cost Estimation
institute: Idaho State University
fontsize: 11pt
headerlogo: "images/header-logo.png"
footerlogo: "images/footer-logo.png"
titlelogo: "images/title-logo.png"
outline: false
...

# Daily Quiz

* Starting at 15:02
  - You will have 5 minutes
  - You may not use your notes, books, lectures, or the internet
  - You may not help each other

\vfill
\centering

\LARGE \underline{Passcode}

\Huge \textbf{4781}

# Quiz

Provide an interval (lower and upper bounds) which contains the correct answer. Set the interval so that you are 90\% certain. Do not use external sources.

1. \footnotesize Length of the Equator (in km)?
2. \footnotesize World record in men's 100m running (in seconds)?
3. \footnotesize Area of the continent Africa (in million km\textsuperscript{2})?
4. \footnotesize Year of birth of Martin Luther King, Jr.?
5. \footnotesize Height of the K2 (in m)?
6. \footnotesize Volume of the Atlantic Ocean (in million km\textsuperscript{3})?
7. \footnotesize How much was the budget of "Lord of the Rings: Return of the King" (in Millions of US \$)?
8. \footnotesize Length of the Nile (in km)?
9. \footnotesize How old was Elvis Presley when he died?
10. \footnotesize Length of the largest killer whale (in m)?  

# Quiz Answers

The following are the answers:

1. \footnotesize Length of the Equator (in km)? {\textcolor{Roarange}{40,007 km}}
2. \footnotesize World record in men's 100m running (in seconds)? {\textcolor{Roarange}{9.58 s}}
3. \footnotesize Area of the continent Africa (in million km\textsuperscript{2})? {\textcolor{Roarange}{30.2 million km\textsuperscript{2}}}
4. \footnotesize Year of birth of Martin Luther King, Jr.? {\textcolor{Roarange}{1929}}
5. \footnotesize Height of the K2 (in m)? {\textcolor{Roarange}{8,611 m}}
6. \footnotesize Volume of the Atlantic Ocean (in million km\textsuperscript{3})? {\textcolor{Roarange}{354.7 million km\textsuperscript{3}}}
7. \footnotesize How much was the budget of "Lord of the Rings: Return of the King" (in Millions of US \$)? {\textcolor{Roarange}{\$94 million}}
8. \footnotesize Length of the Nile (in km)? {\textcolor{Roarange}{6,758 km}}
9. \footnotesize How old was Elvis Presley when he died? {\textcolor{Roarange}{42 years}}
10. \footnotesize Length of the largest killer whale (in m)? {\textcolor{Roarange}{9.8 m}}

# Story Point Estimation

::: columns
:::: column

\footnotesize

**Instructions**

0. \footnotesize Form a group of 3 or 4
1. \footnotesize Replicate the table.
2. \footnotesize As a team rank the user stories from lowest to highest complexity, using the first column
3. \footnotesize As a team assign a Story Point value (Fibonacci numbers) to each user story

::::
:::: column

\tiny

\begin{table}[]
\begin{tabular}{|l|l|l|l|l|}
\hline
\textbf{Lowest Complexity} & \textbf{Estimate} &  & \textbf{User Story Pool} & \textbf{Fibonacci} \\ \hline
                            &  &  & US001 - Gas Line    & 1   \\ \hline
                            &  &  & US002 - Roof        & 2   \\ \hline
                            &  &  & US003 - Door        & 3   \\ \hline
                            &  &  & US004 - Electrical  & 5   \\ \hline
                            &  &  & US005 - Walls       & 8   \\ \hline
                            &  &  & US006 - Plumbing    & 13  \\ \hline
                            &  &  & US007 - Rain Gutter & 21  \\ \hline
                            &  &  & US008 - Foundation  & 34  \\ \hline
                            &  &  &                     & 55  \\ \hline
                            &  &  &                     & 89  \\ \hline
                            &  &  &                     & 144 \\ \hline
\textbf{Highest Complexity} &  &  &                     &     \\ \hline
\end{tabular}
\end{table}

::::
:::

\footnotesize
\centering

The stories are each about completing a simple two bedroom single story house (no basement).
