---
author:
- Dr. Isaac Griffith
title: Requirements Engineering
institute: Idaho State University
fontsize: 11pt
headerlogo: "images/header-logo.png"
footerlogo: "images/footer-logo.png"
titlelogo: "images/title-logo.png"
outline: false
...

# Daily Quiz

* Starting at 15:02
  - You will have 5 minutes
  - You may not use your notes, books, lectures, or the internet
  - You may not help each other

\vfill
\centering

\LARGE \underline{Passcode}

\Huge \textbf{8214}

# Practicum - Part 1

* Form pairs, and then
* Identify the ambiguities or omissions in the following statement of the requirements for a ticket-issuing system:

\footnotesize

> "An automated ticket machine sells rail tickets. Users select their destination and input a credit card and a personal identification number. The rail ticket is issued and their credit card account charged. When the user presses the start button, a menu display of potential destinations is activated, along with a message to the user to select a destination and the type of ticket required. Once a destination has been selected, the ticket price is displayed and customers are asked to input their credit card. Its validity is checked, and the user is then asked to input his or her personal identifier (PIN). When the credit transaction has been validated, the ticket is issued."

* Once you have identified the issues, rewrite the description in a structured way to sensibly resolve the identified ambiguities.

# Practicum - Part 2

* Consider how a requirements review might be structured.

* Draw up a process model describing the organization and operation of a requirement review.
