## Exercises

1. (5 Points) In Scrum, during the daily scrum meeting, the Product Owner is only allowed to ask the developers the same three questions. What are these questions? What two additional questions might you want to ask? For each, explain its benefit toward achieving the goals of the meeting.

In the daily scrum, the Product Owner asks each dev the following questions

(1 Point) What have you done since that last scrum meeting?
(1 Point) What will you be working on next?
(1 Point) What is currently blocking

Additional questions we might want to ask?

(2 points) <Anything reasonable>

2. (5 Points) During this course, you and your team will be working on an endeavor. Towards this, you will need to define your teams' method. From the perspective of Essence, what is the concept of a method? And, what is the method you and your team have agreed to use for your project? Please describe in as much detail as needed.

(2 points) In Essence, a method is simply the combination of essentialized practices.

(3 points) for the selection of methods their team will use on the project (with detail) -> don't grade too hard as they did not have teams assigned yet.

3. (5 Points) Compare and contrast Scrum, Waterfall, and the Rational Unified Process. (Note you may need to do some research on each of these methods). Be sure to detail the benefits and drawbacks of each. Additionally, describe the types of projects for which these approaches might be more useful. Finally, would you select any of them as they are defined, or would you prefer to mix and match?

Scrum is an iterative agile process, Waterfall is a prescriptive linear process, and the Rational Unified Process is an iterative and incremental process.

(1 point) Scrum focuses on the management of the process using agile methods including planning, the sprint (a time-boxed iteration), and retrospective/review meetings. The benefits of scrum include the ability of teams to self-manage, more developer autonomy, tracking through the product backlog, and a time-boxed approach that culminates with a deliverable increment of the product. Furthermore, Scrum puts a heavy focus on stakeholder involvement through the Product Owner role and the use of reviews at the end of a sprint. The drawbacks include a lack of consideration to the design of the system and a lack of specific direction concerning development. Allows for each backlog item to be progressed independently and in parallel at various levels of completion (i.e., design, implementation, or test).

(1 point) Waterfall instead does not time-box and can easily overrun time constraints leading to a significant lack of testing and/or functionality. Additionally, the waterfall method does not have stakeholder feedback during the process, thus leading to a need for significant changes after the product is released.

(1 point) RUP focuses on all aspects of both development and project management. Specifically, it uses time-boxed iterations across increments of the phases of development (inception, elaboration, construction, and transition) while considering several sub-disciplines of development. As initially formulated this does put into perspective cross-cutting concerns of development and where the focus must be for each increment of each major iteration. Additionally, it gains the benefit of the time-boxing concept but suffers from the prescriptive nature of the phases. RUP has similar drawbacks as the Waterfall, though it defeats the issues with time/cost overruns by using time-boxing, however, it does not focus on stakeholder involvement and can lead to a need for significant changes between iterations of the process.

(2 points) for their discussion concerning what they would use, mix and match, etc.


## Submission

Submit a single PDF formatted using LaTeX and Gij's Homework Template from Overleaf. Note: Submission without a Name, formatted using something other than LaTeX, and not in PDF format will be given zero credit. Also, ensure that any images included are legible (not blurry) when included in the document.
