---
author:
- Dr. Isaac Griffith
title: Introduction to Scrum
institute: |
  CS 3321

  Department of Computer Science

  Idaho State University
fontsize: 11pt
cornerLogo: "images/spirit.png"
wideLogo: "images/wide.png"
lowerCornerLogo: "images/roar.eps"
...

# Daily Quiz

* Starting at 15:02
  - You will have 5 minutes
  - You may not use your notes, books, lectures, or the internet
  - You may not help each other

\vfill
\centering

\LARGE \underline{Passcode}

\Huge \textbf{4215}

# Practicum

\footnotesize

1. Form groups of three or four. (For those on Zoom, you will have to do all the thinking on your own.)
2. We are going to consider the following issues with implementing Scrum in the classroom setting (as we will with your projects), with the potential for unavailability of in-person meetings as COVID continues to loom over us.

   * \scriptsize What issues will present themselves during a Sprint?
   * \scriptsize How often and would a Standup Meeting need to occur and what contingencies should the team plan for?
   * \scriptsize Without the strict hierarchy imposed by a work setting, how can the Product Owner role lead and direct the team?
   * \scriptsize Without the strict hierarchy imposed by a work setting, how can the Scrum Master ensure Scrum is being followed?
   * \scriptsize Where and when would you interject the games from the essence kernel into the scrum flow?

3. As a group discuss each of these over the next 40 minutes or so
4. We will then discuss your thoughts for the remainder of the class period.
