1. When considering a general theory of software engineering, why is the attribute of **Predictablity** necessary?

   * (c) A predictable theory provides the ability to understand the outcome of our decisions prior to making them thus allowing us to optimize our process.
   * (n) A predictable theory provides the ability to add new concepts (i.e., allows us to add new Alpha's or to create practices and methods) to the theory.
   * (n) A predictable theory provides the criteria necessary to progress the system.
   * (n) A predictable theory provides the ability to make day to day decisions regarding the system.


2. Which of the following is **not** a key characteristic of Essence as it relates to software engineering theory?

   * (n) Essence is actionable
   * (n) Essence is practical
   * (n) Essence is extensible
   * (c) Essence is predictable

3. True or False. One of the deleterious aspects of the "Methods Wars" was that as each method was developed, the software industry would throw out all it knows and start over with new terminology with little overlap with prior terminology.

   * (c) True

4. Which of the following were methods suggested as a means by which we could visualize the progress and health of a project?

   * (c) Kernel State Evolution Tables
   * (c) Cumulative Flow Charts
   * (c) Radar Diagrams
   * (n) Heat Maps
   * (c) Burndown Charts
   * (n) Chasing the State Board

5. Which of the following are some of the known benefits of Iterative Development?

   * (c) Risks are addressed in early releases
   * (c) Allows for changing requirements over the project's lifetime
   * (n) Stakeholders only see the end results at the end of the project
   * (n) Low priority items are worked on in the early iterations

6. Which of the following are known benefits of the Scrum practice?

   * (c) Repeatable
   * (c) Systematic
   * (c) Verifiable
   * (c) Focuses on team collaboration
   * (n) Simple
   * (n) Prescriptive

7. Consider the waterfall approach, which types of projects would this approach be most useful?

   * (n) New projects for which the requirements are under-specified and the team is inexperienced in building.
   * (c) New project for which the requirements are well known and is a type with which the team is very experienced in building.
   * (n) New project for which a significant number of the components are off-the-shelf components.
   * (n) Existing project which is being modified to include new features for which the user population is still not well defined.

8. Which of the following are considered the drawbacks of the waterfall approach?

   * (c) It is a prescriptive and rigid approach
   * (c) It does not lead to great results
   * (n) It is not very useful for projects with well-known requirements
   * (c) It delays testing to the very end

9. In Scrum, A Product Backlog Item must meet a specific set of criteria, known as the "Definition of Done", in order for the team to call it complete, which of the following are elements of this criterion?

   * (c) sufficiently tested
   * (n) accepted by the Users
   * (c) source code checked in
   * (c) documentation updated

10. When tracking the progress/health of an endeavor, waves of changes in alpha states commonly occur. Which of the following best describes why this phenomenon occurs?

    * (c) Teams will set multiple alpha states to achieve at any checkpoint. As these are achieved, and due to the interrelated nature of the alphas, multiple alphas will progress between checkpoints.
    * (n) Teams tend to set a only a single objective. However and coincidentally, when the objective is achieved multiple alphas will progress due to the interrelated nature of the alphas.
    * (n) The nature of the Essence theory does not offer an explanation as to why this occurs.
    * (n) None of these offer an accurate description of this phenomena.
