# Syllabus

1. What is the course policy on late assignments?

   * (c) late homeworks and projects are not accepted
   * (n) late homeworks or projects are accepted as long as it is less than 24 hours late
   * (n) late homeworks or projects are accepted as long as you had the work done before the deadline, but just couldn't get it posted on moodle in time.
   * (n) late homeworks or projects are accepted up until the last day of class

2. What is the course policy on assignment extensions?

   * (n) Extensions are never granted
   * (c) Extensions may be granted on a case-by-case basis if certain requirements are met
   * (n) Extensions are always granted as long as you reach out to your instructor prior to the deadline

3. Which of the following best describes the flipped class approach?

   * (c) Lectures are online (outside of class) while the classroom experience is focused on application of the knowledge using active learning.
   * (n) Lectures are in the classroom, but there are additional exercises during the lecture.
   * (n) There is no difference between the flipped and the traditional approaches.

4. If you miss a deadline, what should you do?

   * (n) Send your instructor an email noting that you forgot the deadline, and plead for them to grade you assignment anyway.
   * (n) Send your instructor an email with your assignment attached, and ask for them to grade the assignment.
   * (n) Take a screenshot showing that you missed the deadline by only a few sections/minutes and beg them to grade your assignment anyway.
   * (c) Accept that you did not make the deadline and move on.
   * (c) Turn in your partially complete assignment early, updating it periodically, and if you might miss the deadline, send an email to your instructor to let them know.

5. What is the likely outcome of a violation of the Academic Integrity Policy?

   * (c) An investigation will occur, and if found guilty of the violation, you will be given a warning.
   * (n) An investigation will occur, and if found guilty of the violation, you will be given a zero for the assignment.
   * (n) An investigation will occur, and if found guilty of the violation, you will fail the course.

6. How may quizzes, daily quizzes, homeworks, and project components can you miss without it affecting your grade?

   * (c) 1 quiz
   * (c) 5 daily quizzes
   * (n) 0 homeworks
   * (n) 1 project component

# Essence

7. Which of the following are not practices which may be adopted by a development team?

   * (n) Backlog-based Development
   * (n) Unit Testing
   * (c) Waterfall Approach
   * (c) Extreme Programming
   * (n) Pair Programming
   * (n) Service Oriented Architecture

8. Which of the following best describes the relationships between the concepts of **programming**, **software development**, and **software engineering**?

   * (c) Programming is the means by which software development is realized, but software development is much more. Additionally, software engineering brings the science and engineering discipline to software development to improve the reliability and repeatability of the process.
   * (n) Programming is the means by which software engineering is realized, but software engineering is much more. Additionally, software development brings the science and engineering discipline to software engineering to improve the reliability and repeatability of the process.
   * (n) Software development is the means by which software engineering is realized, but software engineering is much more. Additionally, programming brings the science and engineering discipline to software engineering to improve the reliability and repeatability of the process.
   * (n) None of these is an accurate description

9. Which of the following most correctly describes the layered architecture of Essence and its components.

   * (c) The Essence Language provides the foundation upon which the Essence Kernel rests. The Kernel is used to essentialize the Practices, and Methods are composed of Practices.
   * (n) The Essence Kernel provides the foundation upon which the Essence Language rests. The Language is used to essentialize the Practices, and Methods are composed of Practices.
   * (n) The Essence Language provides the foundation upon which the Essence Kernel rests. The Kernel is used to essentialize the Methods, and Practices are composed of Methods.
   * (n) The Essence Kernel provides the foundation upon which the Essence Language rests. The Language is used to essentialize the Methods, and Practices are composed of Methods.
   * (n) None of these is an accurate description.

10. (match) Consider a university student registration system. With this system in mind, for each of the following groups/individuals identify if they are a stakeholder, and if so which type of stakeholder they may be (internal or external):

   - Students -> External Stakeholder
   - Parents of Enrolled Students -> Not a Stakeholder
   - University Faculty -> External Stakeholder
   - Project Software Engineer -> Internal Stakeholder
   - Registrar's Office Staff -> External Stakeholder

11. True or False, the following is an accurate description of the relationship between **alphas** and **alpha states**:

   Alpha states provide a means by which we can measure the progress of an alpha. This relation directly provides for the assessment of the progress and health of an endeavor.

   * (c) True
