---
course: "CSCI 4422 | CSCI 5599"
title: HW 02 - Evolution work -- improved UI
assigned: "January 27, 2020"
due: "February 09, 2020 @ 23:00h"
fontsize: 12pt
...

# Part 1 (10 pts) {-}

Download the accompanying project which includes the small command-line Java program Calendar.java. Calendar reads two integer inputs representing a month and a year, and prints the calendar for that month. The project uses gradle to build and run it. You can easily import this project into IntelliJ, Eclipse or Netbeans.

A test for Calendar is two integer inputs and the expected output.

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{\arabic*}]
\item Design at least five tests. One should be a “happy path” test, that is, a test for normal behavior. The others should use exceptional inputs. Implement your tests using JUnit. (For a review of JUnit read K Ch 1-2). Document your inputs and expected results.
\item Run your tests. Capture and submit the results of running your tests.
\item Modify Calendar.java to include input validation. When finished, your tests related to input validation should run correctly.
\item As you make the changes, keep a simple documentation log of what you do. Note which components and methods you change and which ones you no longer use. Summarize the changes in a few words. You do not need to go to the level of which variables you create or delete or how you change the control flow. I just want the highlights. This should be no more than one page.
\item Write a short assessment of the maintainability of the software. What did the original programmers do that made it hard to change the software? What did the original programmers do that made it easy to change the software? What would you do differently if you did the assignment again? One or two paragraphs should be enough.
\end{enumerate}

# Part 2 (10 pts) {-}

Ammann/Offutt, 2nd edition, Exercises Chapter 3 (page 50-52). Do Exercise 9 (equals()/hashCode()).

Make it easy to evaluate your work. Specifically, since you are evaluating different versions of same code, provide evidence of execution (screen shots) at each phase, and briefly describe all of your work.

The deliverable is a report, as opposed to executable code and tests.

# Submission {-}

Submit the following items to Moodle as a **ZIP**.

\begin{enumerate}[label=\protect\circled{\arabic*}]
\item A PDF containing the following information
\begin{itemize}
  \item Your five tests from step 1 above.
  \item Output from your five tests on the original program.
  \item Output from your five tests on your modified program.
  \item The simple documentation log.
  \item Your maintainability assessment.
\end{itemize}
\item Submit source code for your modified Calendar.java.
\end{enumerate}

# Grading {-}

We will grade on several factors.

Part 1
* (2 pts) Whether each item is included
* (1.5 pts) Whether the modified software works
* (2 pts) Clarity and thoughtfulness of the documentation log
* (2 pts) Clarity and thoughtfulness of the maintainability assessment
* (1.5 pts) Quality, maintainability, minimality of the changes you made to the code (this is why we need access to source files)
* (1 pts) Other factors to be determined while grading

Part 2
*
