---
course: "CSCI 4422 | CSCI 5599"
title: HW 03 - Test Doubles and TDD
assigned: "February 10, 2020"
due: "February 23, 2020 @ 23:00h"
fontsize: 12pt
...

# Part 1 (10 pts) {-}

There are various options for the final two assignments. Pick one for assignment 6 and a different one for assignment 7.

* If you have never done this before, work through a simple TDD example such as Koskela, chapter 2: Koskela is available online through Mason's
* If you have never done this before, set up a continuous integration service such as Jenkins or Travis CI. and use it to build and update a small example system. You should intentionally break and restore builds as part of your exercise.
* Use Evosuite to generate tests on a small project. You should analyze the tests to see what Evosuite comes up with and what it misses.
  - Note: Evosuite is aimed at Java.

# Part 2 (10 pts) {-}

This is a "Test Double" exercise. We'll do the exercise one step at a time, with discussion between steps.
Consider testing a class that implements a service for making reservations. We don't really care what the reservations are for: dinner, lodging, transport, whatever. Let's call this class ReservationService and suppose it has a dependency component, namely a ranking service that scores customers, with the idea that higher ranking customers get better arrangements. Note that we are not testing the ranking service. Indeed, the ranking service might be from a third party, it might be expensive (in time or money), or it might be stochastic, with rankings varying over time. Since these are all awkward for testing, we'd like to replace the ranking service with a fake for the duration of our tests. One standard implementation (with unfortunate consequences for testing) uses a static factory to set the ranking service inside the reserve() method.

public class ReservationService {
   // instance variables, constructors, other methods omitted for now

   public void reserve( Customer customer) {
      RankingService rankingService = RankingServices.getRankingService();
      // more code that uses the ranking service by calling
      //   public Rank getRank(Customer customer)
      // on the rankingService object.
    }
}
Great. Let's see what a test case looks like:
@Test public void testReservationService() {
   ReservationService reservationService = new ReservationService();
   Customer customer = ...
   // do I really want to call reservationService.reserve(customer) ???
   RankingService fakeRankingService = new FakeRankingService();
   // are there other ways to create a fake ranking service?
   // can I make the reservation service use my fake ranking service?
}
Suppose we pull the rankingService variable out as an instance variable in the ReservationService class. This a step in the right direction. Why? (Your answer should say something about "seams"). What does the reservation service code look like now? What does the test code look like now?

What else do we need to do in the ReservationService class? Hint: think about "enabling points".

How does this help in the test code? Hint: think about "exploiting enabling points".

Finally, I need some assertions. What can I say about the fake ranking service that I can't say about the real ranking service? Vice versa? Hint: think about "state testing" vs. "interaction testing". Hint: Recall that you have total control over the fake ranking service.

How does this exercise square with standard development advice?

This week's assignment is to take in-class exercise #9 and fill in the details. At the end of the exercise, you should have compilable, running Java for all the parts discussed: the reservation service, the ranking service (both real and fake), and JUnit tests.

An option for those of you looking to learn a bit more is to use a mocking tool to implement the test doubles and the assertions in your tests.

Deliverable: Write a story explaining what you did in a way that is accessible to a typical software developer. In other words, someone who has only a very vague idea of what test doubles are should be able to read your story and understand test doubles better. Part of the grading will be an assessment of how clear your story is.

# Part 3 (10 pts) {-}

If you have never done this before, set up a continuous integration service such as Jenkins or Travis CI. and use it to build and update a small example system. You should intentionally break and restore builds as part of your exercise.

turn in a concise report. The report must reflect a reasonable level of investigation/analysis. Simply making it through the download and running a canned tutorial isn't satisfactory.

# Submission {-}

# Grading {-}
