---
course: "CSCI 4422 | CSCI 5599"
title: HW 04 - ISP and Graph Coverage
assigned: "February 24, 2020"
due: "March 08, 2020 @ 23:00h"
fontsize: 12pt
...

# Part 1 {-}

For this assignment, you have a choice. Do one of the following two exercises.

1. Download and use a combinatorial testing tool to generate combinatorial tests for some artifact of your choosing. You can start looking at the Pairwise Testing site, or you can go directly to a specific tool such as the NIST ACTS.
2. Turn in a brief report that convinces me that you had the tool running and also reflects on the attributes of the resulting tests (e.g. how many, what happened with constraints, etc.)

   * Consider the patternIndex() function.
   * Build a set of JUnit tests that satisfies either PWC or BCC (your choice). I suggest you choose a fairly simple input domain model so that the deliverable, described below, is not of undue complexity.

Your deliverable is a story that convinces the me that you actually derived your tests from your input domain model. That is, you will be graded solely on whether you demonstrate an understanding of how input domain models lead to tests in the context of this example. If you simply turn in an IDM or JUnit tests without explanation, your score will be zero.

An important part of the story is explaining what happens to infeasible test frames. Depending on whether you are using PWC or BCC, you need to do the right thing with them.

# Part 2 {-}

Use a Java code coverage tool to build and analyze a test set for for some class in java.util. (You can find the source code with Google.) You should strive to get the coverage as high as possible. To execute the code in isolation, you may have to change the code in some minor ways (eg by renaming). You may also remove some code if it proves especially problematic for you. You should document any changes you made for test purposes. Notice that the classes vary quite a bit in size.

You should turn in a report that

Demonstrates clearly that you, in fact, completed the assignment.
Reports on any technical twists and turns you encountered along the way.
Gives the actual tests.
You should format your tests as JUnit tests.

Notes:
As for which tools to use, you may wish to start by googling "java test coverage". In the past, many students have used the Emma tool.
If you can find them, you are also welcome to analyze the existing tests (presumably JUnit) that go with any of the existing Java code. If you opt for this route, instead of analyzing coverage on a single class, you should analyze something larger. Your deliverable is still a report, but you should only provide a link to the actual tests.

# Submission {-}
