---
course: "CSCI 4422 | CSCI 5599"
title: HW 05 - Logic and Syntax Testing
assigned: "March 09, 2020"
due: "March 22, 2020 @ 23:00h"
fontsize: 12pt
...

# Part 1 {-}

Use a Java code coverage tool to build and analyze a test set for for some class in java.util. (You can find the source code with Google.) You should strive to get the coverage as high as possible. To execute the code in isolation, you may have to change the code in some minor ways (eg by renaming). You may also remove some code if it proves especially problematic for you. You should document any changes you made for test purposes. Notice that the classes vary quite a bit in size.

You should turn in a report that

* Demonstrates clearly that you, in fact, completed the assignment.
* Reports on any technical twists and turns you encountered along the way.
* Gives the actual tests.

You should format your tests as JUnit tests.

# Part 2 {-}

Consider the PIT mutation tool. Apply PIT to a program of your choosing and generate tests to kill the PIT mutants. Your tests should be as close to mutation-adequate as you can make them. That means you should be able to justify unkilled mutants in your report. Note: This tool is aimed at practicing developers, so it is relatively easy to deal with.

Consider the Major mutation tool. Apply Major to a program of your choosing and generate tests to kill the Major mutants. Your tests should be as close to mutation-adequate as you can make them. That means you should be able to justify unkilled mutants in your report. Note: This tool is far more powerful than PIT, but it's a research tool, and it has its quirks.

# Part 3 {-}

Use Evosuite to generate tests on a small project. You should analyze the tests to see what Evosuite comes up with and what it misses.
Note: Evosuite is aimed at Java.

# Submission {-}

# Grading {-}

# Hints {-}
